# CRUD_APP (sqlModel)
 
This was my first time with the term "CRUD". I have learned SQL in university but never used it with a backend. We used xampp in uni. However, I opted for MYSQL for this project. The knowledge of how queries work helped. Intially I didnt want to change the dataset provided and was following some video guides. The guide I was following did front end processing of data without permanent change in database. I didnt know much about how modern sites do it so I thought this was the norm and went with it. As I was adding new features things started getting more complex and I realised it was too complex to be the norm. So after further research I realised that changing database as you go is a better way to do it. So I rewrote the logic to now incorporate changes in database. So create, delete and edit actually changed dataset. The intial data set didnt have a unique value to be used as primary key and I thought I'd try to find a workaround instead of adding it myself. I did manage to make a lot of the features work and found workarounds but then the codes were longer and some features were working unexpectedly. Solving those would have wasted time and I could easily bypass those isssues if I just had a primary key. So I finally added a column 'id' as primary key to make things way easier. And turns out there is an Autoincrement system in MYSQL which does everything for you. So I cleaned the code to incorporate the primary key.

All the phases of development did help me learn more about the API calls. I learned a lot about get, put, post and delete. Connecting SQL with python was confusing at start but then I got used to it. One error that kept popping up was CORS. I looked up a few things about it and the first impression was that it was a permission problem which was solved by including a library in the code. But then this kept popping even when I had the thing settled. Then I realized, incorrect code was also causing this. So then I started writing my code in sections and testing them before going to the next section.

